---
layout: post
title:  "50 chaos engineered mornings"
categories: other
---
Last week I had to wake up early (basically early than my usual time) in the morning for 2 consecutive days because I had to meet someone who was in the city for the limited days. The meetings were scheduled in the morning (around 9am) as that was the only slot when both of us were available based on our schedule. Those who know me are also aware of the fact that I'm not a morning person. On most of the days when I'm at home, I'm used to wake up around 10:30-11 and start my work from 12. This doesn't mean that I can't wake up in the morning. Whenever I'm travelling or I've to go somewhere, I wake up before my alarm rings. And I feel equally fresh too. But I realized that at home I get quite comfortable and even though when most of the times I wake up around 7am, I would just go back to sleep thinking what would I do in the morning.(I know there are lot of things to do but this was just an excuse I have been using for myself. And I'm not guilty about it. :)) Partically also because the teams I work with are mostly based in CEST timezone. Which means that even if I start working at 12pm, I'm still bit ahead of them to start my day. But waking up around 7-8am for 2 days made me realized that I was able to do bunch of stuff very easily with a fresh and calm mind which wouldn't happen otherwise.

For example, last week I was able to read bunch of LWN articles on the kernel related topic I was always interested in but never got a time to read. And the difference here was my mind wasn't hustling or reminding me that I need to go back to work after completing them as I knew that I had enough time to enjoy the articles, think through them and then go back to continue my day. Usually what happens in my usual routine is whenever I spend time on learning something new or reading a book or exercising, I always have this thought in my mind that I have to go back to X task after that. No matter how much I tried to avoid that thought it just comes back. And  can't enjoy that particular activity or live that moment fully. Here, waking up before 2-3 hours than your usual routine allowed me to enjoy this time without worrying about anything because also I always had an option to go back to the sleep if I get bored. :P

So I've decided to give myself 50 days for this experiment where I'll be walking up around 7-8 in the morning to give myself some extra hours in a day to do whatever I want to do (except sleeping) without hustling. The plan for this experiment is there isn't going to be any definite plans. Basically I'm not going to schedule these mornings. I have tried doing this in the past and it has never worked. So, this time the only basic idea is I just need to find a reason which should be interesting enough for me to not go back to sleep when I wake up at 8am. The activities can include anything ranging from going for bicycling to reading book to doing yoga to learning about something I always wanted to learn but never find time for. These are also not going to be 50 consecutive days as I'm going to travel a lot in upcoming days. But basically these are going to be days (in next 3 months) when I'm at home in a comfortable space and when I think I can probably give more hours to other activities rather than giving it to sleep.

I'm going to call this project: '50 chaos engineered mornings', simply because while searching for something I came across this word and read lot of interesting things about chaos engineering today (which is apparently the first day of this experiement). Chaos engineering is basically a way of implementing set of practices to identify failures before it become outages. In other words, breaking things on purpose to learn how to build resilient systems. I'm associating this word with my experiment because I feel that basic reason behind this experiment is to learn more about the psychology associated with the resistance of mind on waking up early by giving it an interesting reasons to wake up and not go back to the sleep.

I'm not going to write daily blog post or something like that because I know that I'm not able to commit enough time for the same. So, instead I'm just going to start a twitter thread where I'll just tweet about what I did in these extra hours.

P.S. I found Chaos engineering as a field really interesting. Here, is a [link of collected resources for Chaos engineering](https://github.com/dastergon/awesome-chaos-engineering) by Pavlos Ratis.
